# G-code to AutoCAD 2D Model Converter

## Source/original paper
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17452759.2018.1442681

## Introduction
### Objective
This is a small program used to automatically convert G-code to 2D CAD drawings, useful when you want to see the filament structure of a 3D printed model. The generated 2D drawings can be further extruded to 3D solid model in either AutoCAD or SolidWorks, and subject to further finite element analysis (FEA) in ANSYS

### Theoretical background
G-code in a desktop level 3D printing machine gives information of the X-Y-Z position of the nozzle at different time steps. This program extracts those nozzle locations at the same layer and convert them to consecutively lines to form a 2D CAD model. 

### Usage
## Compatibility
This program can only work with G-code generated by Simplify3D, for other slicer software, use with caution and revise when necessary. A sample G-code was given in the repository. 
## Execution
The code was written in MATLAB. Before you run it, double check the filename to make sure it is corresponded to the current folder you want to process. The algorithm should generate a file called ‘outputs.txt’. Copy and paste the content inside of the text file to AutoCAD command line to make the drawing. An alternative way is to generate a script file with .scr extension, directly execute the script file in AutoCAD would also work.

### Citation
If this method is useful for your research, please cite our paper.

### Known bugs
Sometimes this program would generate lines when the nozzle should travel without extrusion material, you may want to manually remove these lines. An update is coming soon<sup>Bllizzard TM</sup>

